hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain the response of linear time invariant systems to complex exponentials
assume that we have a linear time invariant system where the input is x of n and the output is y of n
using the linearity property if the input is the sum of scaled signals
the output will be the sum of scaled responses of these input signals
as you might remember analysis of linear time invariant systems through convolution was developed by decomposing the input signal into the summation of basic signals which were shifted impulses
the output to each shifted impulse was the shifted impulse response of the system
currently we explore alternative representation of signals and linear time invariant systems using another set of basic signals
which are complex exponentials
in fourier analysis we are going to represent signals as linear combination of complex exponentials
so why do we choose complex exponentials
the answer is that as the basic signals they satisfy the given two properties
the first one is that their system response is straightforward to compute
the second one is that they can be used to construct a broad range of signals
so let's apply a complex exponential as input to a linear time invariant system and compute its output
when a complex exponential is applied as input the output of the system is the same complex exponential multiplied by a complex constant
note that this is true both for the discrete and continuous time signals
its derivation is quite straightforward using the convolution operation
a signal for which the system output is a constant times input is referred to as an eigen function of the system
and the amplitude is referred to as the system's eigen value
this is a very important property stating that complex exponentials are eigenfunctions of linear time invariant systems
eigenvalues h of s and h of z are computed as given here
the eigen function property together with the superposition property leads to convenient expression for the response of a linear time invariant system
if the input to a linear time invariant system is a linear combination of complex exponentials
then the output is also represented as the linear complication combin  sorry linear combination of same complex exponential signals
in this video I have explained response of linear time invariant systems to complex exponentials
in the next video I am going to explain fourier series representation of continuous time periodic signals
thank you